--- 
layout: post
title: Hacking a project-oriented life
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

I'm a geek in that "ooh, it's shiny, let me obsess about it for a while" way. In fields that are really technical or challenging or otherwise uncomfortable in some way, I don't know how people get through the day if they're not really in love with what they do. 

Knowing that I approach things in a geeky way is important because I've always had trouble in school and I think it comes from my growing up believing that deadlines were supposed to be the important part of the project process. And they <em>are</em> important but I tend to lose sight of the project for fear of the deadline. I freeze up like a deer in the headlights when I have four hours to do things, unable to see how I could finish all the stuff even if it's a half hour of work. 

I'm learning to compartmentalize the fear of not meeting the deadline and focus on the awesome that is the project I'm working on. I've met people this year who rarely even look at their grades. They don't generally have to worry about them because they're engaging with the material. They occasionally have to rein themselves in because they're on a tangent but that's a normal part of any project. You're hired to do a particular job. Do it well and have fun with it but definitely do what you were hired for because you're not getting paid for handign in something entirely unrelated with the excuse that it was awesome in its own right.

(I know a fair number of people like that, too.) 

This summer's been going great since I've been focusing on finding my own way to do things and I decided to organize my filesystem by projects instead of classes.

It's already helping keep me from getting wound up in deadlines and expectations. I'm a geek, right? So a list of projects gets me going "ooh, let's implement a cool idea" instead of thinking "assignment #3 [meaningless word] for ece372 [also meaningless word] is due on Friday [which makes me do the procrastinating 'how many hours every day til then' thing]." 

If I avoid focusing on the deadline and work to small goals, the deadlines are proving not to be a problem. If they are a problem, then it's not like focusing on the deadline would have made me work faster or better. There are times when it's appropriate to stop and step back and check to see whether I'm on schedule -- and to analyze why not if I find out I'm not -- but mostly the important thing is the work, the project, the process.

With that in mind, my file system is fairly spartan and the main working folder I hit first is ~/proj. 

/home/wicker/backup -- for temporary backups. I maintain a backup hard drive as well as a Windows 7 external and a Windows XP external for those times when the Linux just doesn't cut it. Luckily, LTSpice works in WINE and I have access to SolidWorks, Matlab, and LabView through the school labs and VNC so those times when I need a Windows hard drive, they don't happen very often. 

/home/wicker/compendi -- my local website copy
/home/wicker/games -- a handful of old RPGs
/home/wicker/media -- music

/home/wicker/orgs -- background information for organizations I'm a part of for upcoming fly-ins and whatever I've volunteered for. Includes eaa, 99s, psas, quadcopter. Actual projects end up in the ~/proj folder below.

/home/wicker/photo -- recent or project-relevant photography that hasn't been moved to the external backup
/home/wicker/proj -- projects. this is my working folder. when I'm bored, I go in and see what I want to work on.

/home/wicker/ref -- general reference library that's still relevant. this also gets saved in the external backup when it's outlived its usefulness
/home/wicker/scripts -- bash, vim, irssi, etc.
/home/wicker/VirtualBox VMs -- my VMs for breaking stuff

When I'm sitting down to work and I don't have a particular deadline, I'll open up ~/proj and the descriptive filenames, with no deadline and no class context, let me focus my geek to consider the particular problems and see what strikes my fancy. 
