--- 
layout: post
title: Thinking about Iraq
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

I've been finishing up the website and feeling really freaking proud of it. I hacked on Ruby for the first time; I understand how to make a tag cloud, which is awesome in that the visual side of it is immediately recognizable: once you know the tags are all categories of posts, the larger font size <em>has</em> to be importance. It's a great shorthand. 

The beauty of Jekyll is that the final product is static but the pages are written in text files and dynamically generated from one layout file. It's the beauty of PHP without the security flaws or headache-inducing aggravation. Wordpress, it was fun but we're over. I'm also so ridiculously proud that the design is so thoroughly my own, tweaked a thousand times over the design and build process, and that the ridiculous picture on my 'about' page still makes me laugh. 

I spent this evening finishing up the photography sections and realized I'd saved one particular album for last. I just couldn't decide which photos to highlight, how explicit to be in captions, whether to include people. 

See, I took a lot of pictures in Iraq that I don't feel comfortable showing to anyone. I've been all over Europe and North America; to five countries in the Middle East, one in Asia, and two states of Australia; that doesn't count my futile admiration of the coasts of many more. I don't mind posting those. They're innocent tourist photos. I don't feel innocent after Iraq, I guess. My presence there was complicated for a thousand layered reasons.

It's interesting how I can look at a picture and be right back there. I was only, with a couple of exceptions, at a massive base where the risk was only mortar fire every few days-- so something in me whispers that I don't deserve to say I was there. I drove a truck all over that base, over mortar- and rocket-marked roads. I think my reticence comes from my not wanting to implicitly speak for other Marines, not wanting to get anyone else in trouble if one of the photos isn't appropriate, and, most curiously, not really believing that I deserve to speak about the experience even just for myself. 

In the five years since my service in Al Asad, I've experienced the after-effects of having been non-infantry <em>and</em> female in a culture where I was told <em>women shouldn't be here in Iraq, or Marines at all, for that matter</em> nearly every day. I was drop-kicked from my initial avionics workcenter because <em>girls make trouble in a shop</em> and <em>having one girl in the shop means she won't have a buddy</em>. 

I was lucky enough to have an outstanding staff sergeant in my temporary workcenter who treated me like anybody else but the civilians who were added into our space because their contracts demanded continued employment were hateful. One in particular left fundamentalist tracts on my desk about queers ruining the world and told me I'd never achieve my dreams so I'd better learn to compromise them; the other leered at me and made nasty comments when the others weren't looking. It was a deeply harassing environment and it made me stronger but it shouldn't have had to. I had to deal with that on top of the day-to-day work.

The entire experience has taken what I do think is basically imposter syndrome and magnified it, making me feel like I was never really there, that I never did anything worthy of having said I went. In a culture where having served is lauded across the land, it's a slap in the face to be asked <em>oh, is your boyfriend a Marine?</em> when driving my USMC-stickered truck or wearing a Marines sweatshirt. When I tell someone I've been military, they inevitably nod and go, <em>Air Force, right?</em> No, not the fucking Air Force. I earned my own eagle, globe, and anchor, thank you. I earned this and I was messed up as a kid but I straightened myself out in those five years. I was a good Marine and the Marines made me a better person. It was a fair trade.

I see a lot of stories about veterans who're having trouble making that transition out of the service. I've always shied away from admitting that I see myself in those stories because the little voice whispers, <em>but you didn't do anything.</em> 

I'm surprise to still find myself angry at that voice, at society, at the culture of the Corps. It's faded, it's nothing like it was when I was in and unable to process it, but this is the first time in five years that I've really looked over these pictures and I'm really glad I took them, whether I'm showing them on the internet or not. I'm right back at the base, for better or worse, when I see the warehouse, my truck, the aircraft, my fellow Marines. Clearly this is an experience that left a mark.

Sometimes I meet other women Marines and we'll talk incessantly about our time in Iraq and the service, clearly not over the experience but lacking anyone else to talk to who understands. I've never met anyone who hadn't been there who really got what I try to say. I learned quickly not to talk about my service at all with civilians because I'll inevitably be misunderstood.

It's nice to have this last word on the subject, though. I'm glad I enlisted and I value my combat zone experience as the first time in my life that I was able to take a great deal of responsibility without direct supervision under difficult conditions and turn in a job I could be proud of. I'd never done anything as meaningful as I did over there; I took that confidence born of real success home with me and I'm glad I have the pictures to remind me that those seven months, much less the other four-and-a-half months really happened.
