--- 
layout: post
title: My friend's bucket list is a wall of sticky notes
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

I wrote my first List of Doom in elementary school in pencil on lined paper torn from a notebook and stuck it on the wall of my closet. There were things I could do and things I couldn't. <em>Go to space</em>, for example, is still on it. <em>Learn to skateboard</em> has been attempted and discarded. <em>Learn to fly</em> is checked off.

Eventually I started a blog and maintained the list there. Some of the items were whimsical, as they should be, and many were random, as they are, and some were never finished because they became unimportant as my interests changed. 

<em>Go to space</em> got rewritten several times as the list moved mediums. Sometimes it was more specific ("orbit", "be the sysadmin for Mars") but usually those were additions, not replacments.

Then I enlisted in the Marines and stopped making the list; I couldn't keep up with making it, much less checking everything off. The list became irrelevant to my daily interests. I was too busy in the present to be living in potential futures. I did what I wanted every day and discovered that what I wanted was all I wanted right then. Get it? 

For example, I added <em>skydiving</em> on a Thursday and scratched it out on that Saturday, having found it to be as awesome as I expected. I learned to identify desert planes, camped overnight alone, bought a kayak and learned about going out on the river by myself.

I'm sitting here now in grad school, in my own apartment in Portland with my own airplane posters on its walls and my own little truck outside. I'm considering making another list so I know I'm in a slow period, a quiet time. It's the fast-paced times of my life when I can't keep up and, consequently, doing stuff all day, those are the times I'm happiest.

You know, the things on that first list that I couldn't do then are still things I just can't do yet because I don't have the money, the technology, or the opportunity. <em>Go to space</em>, for example. All the rest are in progress or done. The items go on the list as fast as they come down. 

My friend's bucket list is a pile of sticky notes on his dorm room wall. I hope he did that because his life is so awesome and fast-paced that he comes home and only has time to scrawl a new post-it and stick it in the place where he's just pulled a previous one down and put it in the 'hell yeah, my life is awesome' file. 

I really recommend it as a way to live.
