--- 
layout: post
title: Quitting things that suck away my time
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

So I'm having a summer of awesome. Everything's going really well. I've got projects, school, a new part-time lab manager position, and some flying in my life. Things are really good. 

They're good, in part, because I'm slowly dropping a whole pile of things that have been taking up my time, particularly internet drama things. So in no particular order, the stuff I've left behind:

1. I was in a writing club and then I realized that nobody really read my stuff. Also, I was seeking out the gossip and the drama, which is really I made a list of all the reasons I still wanted to be in the club and couldn't really find any. I had a couple of friends who fervently told me they wanted me to stay in the club, they'd always want to talk to me, etc. but now, a few weeks later, they haven't contacted me at all. I see them on gmail a lot but they never talk. I realize now that I barely knew them and that it was really a club-only friendship.

2. I stopped my internet service at home. I've got an iPad for the few nights I want to watch something on Netflix (usually off-beat documentaries) and knowing I had it available was really what made me able to cut myself off of the Clear wifi. I'm glad I did. At first, I watched Netflix all the time in the evening ... and then a friend got me hooked on Game of Thrones and I had to spend my evenings reading for a couple weeks, and now I skim skeptically through the Netflix offerings and put the iPad away. 

With internet went most of my TV and media. Most of it makes me angry. Most of it's factually wrong. The worst part is when I'd find myself getting angry or otherwise righteously indignant about something that's not even true. I don't like most fictional shows. I don't like the writing and I'm not sucked in by the characters. The shows I followed have all jumped the shark in the last year (possibly <em>I</em> jumped the shark) and I just haven't bothered to replace them.

I used to click through Google News a billion times a day. The computer science crowd was starting to suck me into Reddit and cute cat pictures but really, I'm better off without them. I read MAKE and a couple airplane magazines but mostly I'm filtering science stuff into Google Reader. If I'm struck by a need to find out what Company X is doing, I'll go read up on Company X at that moment. The world doesn't end if I don't know about the BiPod until somebody mentions it ... which they will, because I'm surrounded by the kind of people I want to be surrounded by. Of <em>course</em> they're going to tell me all about it.

I don't have Twitter and my Facebook's just kind of a placeholder. I don't check it. You can reach me by text, email, IRC, or (I'll call you back, maybe) phone... but then I did get invited to Google Plus and it's just geeks all over the place so I've got a small contact list. I'm pretty willing to put people in the block circle so I don't have to deal with them. I'm turning into a snob and it's making me feel so much more mentally stable. I'm also pretty active in chronicling what's been happening that's awesome so I have a record. Sometimes I feel like I haven't done anything (that's imposter syndrome, I think) and then I'll check Google Plus and there's a whole pile of stuff. It's cool.

3. I haven't seen a movie all summer, except for a random rewatch of early 90s films like Jurassic Park and Independence Day. What's been entertaining is when someone quotes a recent movie (Like I would've seen Captain America anyway? really?) and asks me if I've seen it, then either doesn't believe my answer or attempts to explain the entire plot to give context for the funny moment that is, to me, meaningless. I cringe at this because I remember doing that myself and now I know how much the people I was accosting didn't care. 

Now I'm really having several weeks in a row that are awesome. I've had some weird days but that's normal. There were parts of this past winter where I was really frustrated and I didn't know why ... I think the answer is that I was spending a lot of time caring and engaging with things I wanted to avoid. Also, I wasn't thinking enough. This blog and Google Plus are productive as opposed to passive. 

Cutting out my endless reading has made me more able to think clearly and deeply again. The point of the blog was to work on writing clearly. I'm still very wordy (I write like I talk) but it's improving. My attention span in general is better. I can work on the laptop without stopping every few minutes to check some random website or play a mindless game.

In stepping back from media, too, I can see the effects of whatever is on TV on my friends. It means I'm sometimes out of the social loop but I hang out with people who talk a lot of shop so it doesn't really seem to matter. The ebb and flow of conversation moves on past what was on ... whatever ... last night. I'm reading way more for the first time in years. I'm retaining more. 

It's all anecdotal but I wasn't feeling fine when I was juggling all these inputs and now I feel amazing, with awesome things happening every day that I can put time and energy towards because I'm not putting time and energy towards the inputs. It's great.

And the big reason I hadn't done this before was I was afraid of losing my friends. But you know, now they text instead of call, they email instead of expect me on chat, and they're cutting themselves off about the movies or the cat pictures. They're friends, right? They adapt because they want to stick around. 
