--- 
layout: post
title: Blaming the internet for my zombified relationships
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

I've been having a tough week with personal stuff. I don't think the internet allows long-distance friendship to die naturally. In the real world, in years past, I'd stop calling and you'd think about me now and again but we'd naturally drift apart. We'd both let the grief of losing a friend occur naturally over a longer period of time as we both come to terms with the changes in our relationship. We'd probably both might have some mild regrets that we each should've tried harder but overall we'd think back fondly on our time together.

I feel as if the internet has helped me be lazy, to take some of my relationships with people for granted. Online journals and blogs create an artificial environment that prolongs a sort of faux intimacy. We might not have talked in years but your daily minutiae shows up on my friends' list forever -- I don't have to try as hard to connect, to keep up, to update my mental image of you. Why put in the effort? Your posts will still appear tomorrow whether I try today or not.

Maybe this means that the inevitable break-up will be more violent, more effective because we both realize all in one instant that we're talking to shadows of the other's former self. We've each volved but our understanding of each other, based on online personas, has not. The nastiness of that break-up, particularly with how used to ~drama~ we all are out here in the interwebs, colors the memories of you so that it's harder to remember all the good times that came before, particularly if there was a long period of time where we only built up lists of complaints without ever really confronting the issue.

If a break-up online felt like it came out of nowhere, in a lot of ways I think it did because our relationship became a zombie; if this was phone calls and letters, the confrontation might never have happened at all because the relationship would've been allowed to rest in peace. It wasn't, so we had to decapitate it before we could move on with our lives.

I don't think anything that hurts this much can be an internet feature; I think it's gotta be a bug.

