--- 
layout: post
title: My iPad apps
category: summerblog
section: Summerblog
header: /images/header/header3.png
---

I had major surgery in January and was unable to lift heavy objects for a few weeks so I finally let myself touch an iPad and paid money for it, like, half a minute later. I'd come off a tough term in December and was wrestling with not being able to separate my work life from my gaming. I wanted to see if I could move my school-stuff to the iPad entirely and leave off the laptop for relaxation.

That definitely has not happened (I code on a regular basis, and programming on the iPad involves significant pain and suffering) so I decided to just get over it and stop playing the mindless games and watching TV on the laptop, and use the iPad for reading scientific papers, reading the daily news, checking email, watching Netflix, some general nifty tech apps, and (most importantly) keeping track of my deadlines.

These are my apps. There are many like them but these ones are mine.

<h4>Apps in my Toolbar</h4>

Calendar, Safari, Maps, Photos, VLC, Mail

<h4>Keeping Track of My Life</h4>

<em>2Do</em> is awesome for keeping track of life. It's endlessly customizable and doesn't require the internet so I can handle everything even when I'm not paying for the data plan. It's got a calendar view by due dates, colored tagging, and notes.

Bento was just weird. iHomework was very high school. 
Evernote was about telve times as confusing as I needed it to be.

<h4>Move Stuff to the iPad</h4>

<em>Dropbox</em> is how I get it to the iPad. I can also do it by sending email to myself but sometimes the files are too large. I've got email and contacts synced. 

<em>GoodReader</em> is my favorite for opening up PDFs out of email and Dropbox. It's the second part of the Dropbox-to-iPad 

Papers just hasn't been necessary because I've had GoodReader. 

Instapaper, on the other hand, is great. It's a link on the toolbar in Safari that saves the page you're viewing for reading later so I can go through and snag a bunch of articles before heading out of range. 

Stanza is just a reader, lacking a lot of extra features but (on the plus side) just exactly what it says on the tin. I never use it anymore because I have GoodReader and Instapaper above. Same with iBooks, which is just ... like, what? Kindle does it better. I have textbooks on Kindle that I use instead of paper ones so I can follow along in class without hauling thirty pounds of backpack everywhere.

<h4>Writing</h4>

Pages, Keynote, and Numbers are all the standard Mac Office suite. They're gorgeous but I actually haven't used these nearly as much as I thought I would. I use my laptop for that sort of thing.

<h4>Drawing, Notetaking, Annotating</h4>

<em>Penultimate</em> is where I go to first. I even had a stylus for a while but now I'm good at writing with my finger so it's even easier. The trouble is remembering to look at it. It's the closed-box problem. If I can't see it, how will I remember there was a note in there?

Noteshelf was just... too much. I just wanted paper. Penultimate gave me paper and a pen.

iAnnotate PDF is actually very cool but totally useless to me. I don't annotate things, I make bigger thought-notes in a notebook and remember what I need to remember. I guess for editing it would be useful.

<h4>Other Apps</h4>

I was recommended ForeFlight and Pilot My-Cast but haven't really played with them because I don't have any money for flying.

Wikipanion is wonderful.

Wolfram Alpha's math foo has saved me a few times, particularly when I was fighting with convolution in image processing.

Dictionary is just nice to have on hand.

GraphCalc HD does what I want but I just wish there was a better user interface.

Netflix is great. I run Linux on my laptop and never got to have Netflix instant until the iPad. While recovering from surgery, I watched more movies than in the previous six months ... too bad I can't remember which ones they were. 

Star Walk is the 'point me at the sky, I tell you realtime stars' app.

NYTimes for news when I have the urge. Nice interface. I stay away from the opinion pages.

Dragon Dictation is hilariously wrong.

Risk, for those times when world domination is the only thing that'll make the day better. 

<h4>Apps that Seemed Like A Good Idea At The Time(TM)</h4>

Flixster, World Atlas, Epicurious are summed up by "sure, I guess I'll download this... and then never look at it again."

<h4>Rage-inducing</h4>

iSSH -- are you <em>kidding me?</em> This is terrible. I'm still looking for an SSH client that will handle irssi so I can actually use it.

<h4>Apps I'd Like to Figure Out</h4>

Google Voice and Skype seem like they'd be useful. I don't really get it. I don't care enough to put in the time to get it.
